---
path: "/presentation"
date: "2018-12-19"
title: "Presentation for Final"
---

Instead of including a seperate document for my presentation, I thought it would be a cool idea to include the presentation within the website itself. I will also include the YouTube video that I created presenting this project below.

Starting off, I had wanted to create a blog website that had user functions and continuous deployment by a site like Netlify. I wanted to allow users to login and logout, sign up for email access, amongst other functions. I decided against this as I wanted to focus more on the UI of my project.

The end website is one I very much enjoy. I am a big fan of minimal websites, as I enjoy being able to get right to the point of what I am viewing. I started by choosing my colorways, gray and white, and ended up adding a dark blue border around the website to add some contrast. I first had wanted to have a sidebar of some kind, that would be informational to the reader. I created the sidebar in my layouts/index.js. This layouts file is where I create the props of my header and sidebar. The header is a simple line of text reading the name of my website. This also functions as a button to go back to my index.js page. The sidebar contains information on the use of the website, the creator and a small snippet about how the website is created. Both of these props are then added to a TemplateWrapper object that I use as an export. I decided against creating 2 files and folders for these objects as I mainly wanted my code to be readable and not too lengthy, which I believe it is not.

Moving on to the blog post and blog post listings, I coded my index.js page to show a list of my blogs, starting with the name, followed by date, and a small (250 character) excerpt from the blog. The website then uses graphql as a page query to show the data. I also use a blog-listing.css in the styles folder to style each preview. Each blog posts title is able to be clicked to bring the full post into view.

Once clicked on, you can view the entire blog post. I strayed away from using a website to push blog posts as the creation of a post is very straightforward. You create a folder in the pages folder, titled in this format: DD-MM-YYYY-NAME. You then create a index.md file within the folder you just created to hold data related to the post. You enter a path, date and title, and then enter the post itself. I unfortunately never got my excerpt to work correct, as I had wanted to have an excerpt that talks about what you will learn in each blog, but figured that the 250 character preview will work out fine. Each blogpost includes a youtube view that is coded with an iframe.

I had originally wanted to create my own blog posts with information that I learned while learning python, but found myself struggling with time to create indepth demos and guides of what I have learned. I also figured that since the website is just to show off the skills I have learned in this class, that it was not a huge deal. I ended up populating each blog post with a small snippet about each video that is linked to the post. These videos are simple youtube videos relating to python and more specifically the title of each post itself.

Overall, I had a fun time with this project. I enjoyed putting the knowledge I gained in the class to the class to the test by creating a website. There were a couple of functions that I had started to implement, but never figured out. I first attempted to add a particle background with particle.js, but had issues with it working, and when I had got it working, it frankly ruined the minimalistic aspect of the website. I also tried to implement a code block feature, where I could show code block snippets within the index.md files using prismjs, but never got that working unfortunately. Even though I had these issues, I still enjoyed the way my website turned out.
